Why do you feel as if we possibly get better data
from our, or as good a data from our vessels as the
Soviet Union does with, in terms of funding of
expedition, sizes of expedition? Is there any
explanation for that, or have I inferred wrong? I
find it difficult to make this kind of a
comparison. I'm
saying that I'm frequently asked to compare the
Russian with the US that seems to be a let's see
that's a question which intrigues people much
more than say comparing US with England or with
France or so on I find that comparison difficult to
make that's the point some people find it easier
than I do I I Both in, let's see, people are
interested in the level of technology, in the
magnitude of the achievement, in the quality of
the work, and so on. And to me, it's not an easy
question to answer. It's not conspicuously one
way or the other. It depends on the individual
situation.
OK. Just eliminate the next three questions I was
going to ask you about that.
Do you have any views on the role that sea
conferences have played in bringing together
international cooperation?
You mean international meetings, scientific
meetings? Scientific meetings are very
important, more so in oceanography, I think, many
other fields because of the fact that the oceans,
the study of the oceans is very much an
international field in which many countries
share in exchange of information dealing with the
ocean.
Do you see the pushing of nations' boundaries out
more deeply or further into the ocean? as a threat
to your particular academic history. Well, it
makes it more difficult. Yes, the oceanography is
getting more involved in problems of the
jurisdiction over the sea, yes. Do you feel as if
perhaps that these international conferences
will aid in this sort of thing, us being allowed and
they being allowed to work closer on the
continental shelves? are closer to boundaries?
Well, in principle, it could. At the moment, it
isn't obvious that it is helpful.
Excuse me. The next series of questions I should
like to ask have to do with your opinions of
education in oceanography and possibly the
future of oceanography, or oceanography's
contribution to the future, if I could. Do you see
any marked change in terms of education of
oceanographers that has occurred in the last 15 or
20 years?
Let's see. There's always a continuing change in
education in the sense that there is no dogma,
no routine.
The whole oceanography is a developing field. And
the education of oceanographers goes along with
the development of knowledge. So it's
continually changing. And I mean, that's basic.
That's basic. I'm not sure that answers your
question. Well, do you see the rise of
oceanography departments as specific
departments in academic institutions as
essentially a good thing that's occurred the last
several years? Oh, well, yes, in the sense that
it's led to an increased knowledge of the ocean,
I'm
not sure what
you're getting at. OK. Well, let me try to explain
it more clearly. I'm struck by the way that the
original development of oceanography had to do
with people drifting into oceanography, if I may
use that metaphor, from other academic
disciplines and sort of developing
from geophysics, from work in seismology, like
Professor Shore next to you, or what have you, and
then moving to a place like Scripps Institution
and creating oceanography. And with the impact of
ONR, in particular, and NSL after the war, there
have been developed now specialized departments
of oceanography. Yes.
Along with this developed oceanography, there's
a continuing flux of people from other fields,
from physics, chemistry, mathematics, whatnot.
There's a continuing flux of people from those
fields into the oceanographic field. That hasn't
stopped. In other words, people that are in
oceanography don't come exclusively from these
oceanographic departments.
So
let's say the existence of departments of
oceanography and degrees being given in
oceanography, to me, is not a fundamental change
in the situation of education in oceanography, in
part because the people Within the Department of
Oceanography, the people that work within the
Departments of Oceanography themselves are
working in disciplines similar to in other
non-oceanographic departments. They tend to be
chemists, geologists, geophysicists,
physicists working in oceanography.
continue this kind of disciplinary studies right
within the department. So this, to me, existence
of departments of oceanography, to me, is not a
fundamental departure, not a fundamental change
in the science of oceanography.
Is it possible that there are too many departments
of oceanography now? Oh. I couldn't answer that
question. I don't think so. It would be, let's
see, the growth of any field I think is better in
many ways if growth by proliferation of
institutions rather than few of them going to
colossal size. One of the problems, I think, in
oceanography is that ships are very expensive.
And small oceanographic institutions would have
a greater difficulty in keeping a ship going. Even
a large institution like Scripps Institution,
which is one of the largest possibly the largest,
has difficulty maintaining its fleet of ships.
But there are some advantages, don't you see, in
small institutions?
Such as? Well, there's an advantage of more, let's
say, simpler relations between the people
involved in a more, kind of a more intimate contact
among your people. When things get large, they get
problems just because they are large, and
problems of administration, for example.
Was the establishment of the University of
California at San Diego beneficial for Scripps? I
think so, yes. I think, yes, that has the
contact with the An expanded university's been
beneficial to Scripps, in my opinion.
Then there seems to be some perfect size you're
speaking of. Is,
in your opinion, Scripps Institution now too
large? Oh, I'd hate to make an opinion about that.
Some aspects of it, it's too large. I look with some
nostalgia back in the period when I knew everybody
here. And now I don't. I go to a gathering of people
that they tell me are all from Christian
institutions. I may know about 10% of them. So I
think of the good old days when I knew everybody.
The ocean has been looked upon, fortunately or
unfortunately, in the 60s as a possible solution
to man's problems in terms of food, mineral
resources, and so forth. Are you optimistic about
that sort of approach to the ocean?
Let's say you're getting into a subject that, in my
opinion, is really not worth much. The, yes, I
think there have been
maybe too much optimism about the, what some
people almost think of as the inexhaustible
resources of the sea.
Let's see,
and In some of those resources, I think we're
already pushing pretty close to the limit. Some of
the fish, fishing in the sea, for example, pretty
clearly quails and so on. Many things that at one
time looked like they were inexhaustible in the
sea are now quite clearly not inexhaustible.
So no, I don't look for a real tremendous
development where the sea can provide almost
limitless possibilities.
There's
some resources of the sea are not being utilized
yet, for example, on the sea bottom. And there
are projects for mining the deep sea floor, for
example.
I think you'd better ask somebody else about that
field. What do you see as, may I call it, the future
of oceanography? That is, what direction do you
see your particular discipline taking? in the
immediate future? Oh, I don't see it. It bothers me
a little bit. The future seemed very clear to me at
the end of the wars in 1946. The immediate future
seemed very clear to me at that time. It doesn't
seem so to me right now. Maybe that's because I'm
old.
don't really see it very clearly. There's always a
hope, I think, that there'll be a breakthrough or
some unforeseen development. All of the exciting
things that have happened to me in my
oceanographic life couldn't have been foreseen,
couldn't have been thought of because they were
discovered in the process. So when I say the thing
seemed clear to me, it wasn't that I I predicted or
imagined everything that was going to be
discovered. But what I meant was what seemed clear
was the way to go. And now it seems to you as if
oceanography is spreading in many particular
directions. I think the reason it isn't clear is
it's much more complex now. And we're utilizing
facilities and ideas that are much more complex
than ones we've worked on 30 years ago, or 25 or
whatever it was when I
started. Okay. Now, what are your intentions in
future research? Well, I'm sort of, it's hard for
me to know how to go. I'm retired, you know. I
retired a year ago. So I'm sort of... In a way, I have
two, I think maybe one of my major
responsibilities right now is just sort of
cleaning house in a way, sort of winding up some of
the things that I've been doing and trying to throw
away a
lot of the things that aren't aren't needed to hang
on to. Some of the things that we've acquired in the
process, and I think this is true of many fields of
oceanography, you acquire, in a sense, archives.
The biologists may have acquired a whole lot of
specimens of things that they put in bottles of
formaldehyde one time. And geologists collect
rocks off the seafloor, and also cores of
sediment. These are archives which are useful
for people later on. Questions come up
that can be solved by reference to these archives
of material, the cores that that have been studied
in a preliminary way that contain information
that no one dreamed maybe was important at all at
the time they did it. And our work here has similar
archives. We have seismic records that are
continuing to be useful to people. Many people
come to examine details that, when we first look at
them, We didn't have time or weren't even aware
that they might be important. So I have some
interest in cleaning up the archive so that the
material that's useful will be retained and the
stuff that isn't just in the way will be thrown away
or put off to one side or just stacked up. There's a
lot else to use. In addition to that, I'm still
somewhat in demand to go to sea to participate in
continuing work to be on contract proposals as an
investigator and so on. So I'm continuing to do
that. In fact, I'm on two coming expeditions, one
going out in September, and I'm also going out in
January. I hope the one in Journeyware is to the
south. Well, it's almost the same place. The ship
will still be there, you see. One of the things is it
costs a good deal of money to get a ship out into that
area. And the most interesting parts of the world
to study are far from Scripps. And that isn't
entirely because we've studied everything close
by and we have to go further away. There are just a
whole lot of more interesting geology and
geophysics in areas like the Southeast Asia,
which is a fascinating, very complex region. So
complicated that it's only recently that people
are getting into it, because it's very hard to
understand. And the region that we're
immediately adjacent to California, the region
of the ocean right off here, is a simple,
comparatively simple area.
In terms of the field that we're doing, the
geophysics of the ocean bottom.
So we have our ship out there now. It's in Guam. It's
coming into Guam very soon. It's the fifth. Monday
it's coming into Guam. And then it's going to be out
there for another six months on various
before he comes back to San Diego.